vivo_exgest
===========

Introduction
-------------
VIVO Exgest is a tool used to extract data from a [VIVO researcher networking system http://www.vivoweb.org/], using the SPARQL query language. The software is general purpose and can be extended by writing additional SPARQL queries. 

Requirements
-------------
VIVO Exgest uses Python version 2.7.x. In addition, the following Python modules must be installed using easy_install or pip:

RDFLib
<pre>easy_install rdflib</pre>

SimpleConfigParser
<pre>easy_install simpleconfigparser</pre>

TODO: write a setup.py that automatically installs these.
Configuration
-------------

Configuration takes place by modifying the config/exgest_config.ini file. There are five configuration parameters:

* result_key: this the key used to join separate queries (not yet implemented). It is recommended to use either the VIVO URI or a local unique identifier.

* endpoint: This is the SPARQL endpoint the software runs its queries against.

* format: This is the output format the software uses to write its data. Currently only CSV is supported.

* concatenation_strategy: This specifies what strategy is used to concatenate multiple results. The intended output from the program will have one line for each result_key in the data set, therefore, if any column returned from the query has multiple results, they must be concatenated. The "basic" strategy joins each result with a space in between. Currently only basic is implemented.

* output_file: This is the name of the output file generated by the program.

Running
-------------
A sample query to return demographic data on University of Florida faculty members is included in the queries/ directory. VIVO Exgest runs by iterating over all of the query files with a filename ending in .rq in the queries/ directory.

Run VIVO Exgest with Python:
<pre>python vivo_exgest.py</pre>

VIVO Exgest is created and maintained by Josh Hanna (joshhanna@ufl.edu)
 and Nicholas Rejack (nrejack@ufl.edu) as part of the University of Florida's Clinical and Translational Science Informatics and Technology auxiliary.
